1.What is a programming language? What is Java and what is Java used for?
Programming language is structured in such a way that developers can write code anywhere
and run it anywhere without worrying about underlying computer architecture.
Java is a general-purpose Programming language that is class-based and object-oriented.

2.Which version of Java you are working with? How can you find out the version of Java you are using?
"1.8.0_181", by command "java -version" in terminal

3.What is IDE? Which IDE you are working with?
IDE is short for integrated development environment (IDE) which is a software suite that
consolidates basic tools required to write and test software.
Intellij , Eclips

4. What is source code? What is file extension for Java source code?
Source code is the set of instructions and statements written by a programmer using
a computer programming language. It can be human readable plain text.

A file extension, sometimes called a file suffix or a filename extension, is the
character or group of characters after the period that makes up an entire file name.
A file with the JAVA file extension (or less commonly, the .JAV suffix) is a Java
source code file written in the Java programming language.

5.What is the second stage of Java life cycle?
Step 1: Creation of .class file on disk
Step 2: Loading .class file into memory
Step 3: Looking for initialized static members of class
Step 4: Ways to initialize class in java
Step 5: Allocation of memory for object and reference variable
Step 6: Calling of the constructor of class
Step 7: Removing of object and reference variable from memory

6.Which compiler is used for compiling Java file?
The javac tool reads class and interface definitions, written
in the Java programming language, and compiles them into bytecode
class files. It can also process annotations in Java source files
and classes.

7.What files are the input and output of the compilation stage?
The input of a Java compiler is a Java source code file and the
output is a Java class file.

8.Which command is used to call Java compiler in terminal or CMD?
Type 'javac MyFirstJavaProgram. java' and press enter to compile
your code. If there are no errors in your code, the command prompt
will take you to the next line (Assumption: The path variable is set).
Now, type ' java MyFirstJavaProgram ' to run your program.

9.What is the third stage of Java Life Cycle?(Answered on Q5)

10.At which stage class loader is used and what function does it perform?
step 2
The Java Classloader is a part of the JRE (Java Runtime Environment) that
dynamically loads Java classes into the JVM (Java Virtual Machine).
it loaded on demand, as needed by the program (Class Loader). Class Loader is
a component with the Java Execution Engine which loads the Binary data from
the .class files available in the classpath into the Method Area .

11.Which unit is responsible for translating bytecodes into machine code?
The Java compiler translates Java programs into a language called Java bytecode.

12.What is last stage of Java Life Cycle?
Last step is execution. The bytecode generated by the compiler will be executed
by Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Input to the JVM is bytecode and output is machine
code (0's and 1's) which will be executed by the CPU of the local machine.

13.Which command is used to run Java program in terminal or CMD?(check inQ8)
Type 'javac MyFirstJavaProgram. java' and press enter to compile your code.
If there are no errors in your code, the command prompt will take you to the
next line (Assumption: The path variable is set). Now, type ' java MyFirstJavaProgram '
to run your program.

14.At what stage bytecode verifier is used?
the JVM performs a static analysis at loading time called class verification [1].
This verification includes bytecode verification to make sure that the byte code
of the applet is proved to be semantically correct and cannot execute ill-typed
operations at run time.

15.What is JDK? Briefly explain the components of JDK.
The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment that offers a
collection of tools and libraries necessary for developing Java applications. You
need the JDK to convert your source code into a format that the Java Runtime
Environment (JRE) can execute.

16.Name main components present in JVM and write function of each component.
The JVM consists of three distinct components:
Class Loader. -->The class loader is a subsystem used for loading class files.
It performs three major functions viz. Loading, Linking, and Initialization.

Runtime Memory/Data Area.(Byte code verifier) -->JVM Method Area stores class
structures like metadata, the constant runtime pool, and the code for methods

Execution Engine.-->It is a type of software used to test hardware, software,
or complete systems. The test execution engine never carries any information
about the tested product.

17.What is JRE? In which stage of Java life cycle JRE is used?
JRE (Java Runtime Environment) is an installation package that provides an
environment to only run(not develop) the java program(or application)onto
your machine. JRE is only used by those who only want to run Java programs
that are end-users of your system.
Execution stage

18.What is the syntax? Make a list of rules(you learned in a class) you should always follow while creating your Java application.
public class Main {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    System.out.println("Hello World");
  }
}

1)Java file called Main.java
2)Every line of code that runs in Java must be inside a class
3)A class should always start with an uppercase first letter.
4)The name of the java file must match the class name. When saving the file, save it
using the class name and add ".java" to the end of the filename.
5)The main() method is required and you will see it in every Java program:Any code
inside the main() method will be executed.
6)Inside the main() method, we can use the println() method to print a line of text
to the screen:
7)The curly braces {} marks the beginning and the end of a block of code.
8)System is a built-in Java class that contains useful members, such as out, which
is short for "output". The println() method, short for "print line", is used to
print a value to the screen (or a file).
9)You should also note that each code statement must end with a semicolon (;).



19.How should we name our Java application?
Standard Java Naming Conventions
Packages: Names should be in lowercase. ...
Classes: Names should be in CamelCase. ...
Interfaces: Names should be in CamelCase. ...
Methods: Names should be in mixed case. ...
Variables: Names should be in mixed case. ...
Constants: Names should be in uppercase.

20.Documentation Section
   Package Declaration
   Import Statements
   Interface Section
   Class Definition
   Class Variables and Variables
   Main Method Class
   Methods and Behaviors

21.What is the importance of comments in the program? Mention different ways in which we can write comments in a program.
Commenting involves placing Human Readable Descriptions inside of computer programs
detailing what the Code is doing. Proper use of commenting can make code maintenance
much easier, as well as helping make finding bugs faster. Further, commenting is
very important when writing functions that other people will use.

Single-line Comments:it is for the beginners and is in a single line Java comments.
     -->// A comment is written here
Multi-line Comments:Multi-line Java comments are used wherever we need to explain a
procedure, single-line comments become tedious in this case as we will need to write
 ‘//’ at the start of every line
     -->/*Comment starts
        continues
        continues
        .
        .
        .
        Comment ends*/
Documentation Comments:utilized by large code for a programming bundle since it
produces a documentation page for reference, which can be utilized for getting data
about strategies, its parameters, and so forth.
     -->/**Comment start
        *
        *tags are used in order to specify a parameter
        *or method or heading
        *HTML tags can also be used
        *such as <h1>
        *
        *comment ends*/

22.Write a simple Java program to print the “Hello World” message. Keeping in mind stages of Java Life Cycle draw a flow chart to show journey of your first program
public class Hello {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    System.out.println("Hello World");
  }
}
open a text editor and write a simple program.-->Save this file as Hello.java-->
open Command prompt (cmd) on Windows. If you are using Mac OS then open Terminal.-->
write the following command and press enter.(javac Hello.java)-->In the final step,
we can run the program.(java Hello)


23.What is file extension for Java executable code? At which stage of Java Life Cycle we get executable code?
1)the source ‘.java’ file is passed through the compiler,
2)To run, the main class file (the class that contains the method main) is passed
to the JVM and then goes through three main stages before the final machine code is
executed. These stages are:
These states do include:

ClassLoader
Bytecode Verifier
Just-In-Time Compiler

24.When does compile time starts?
when the code is translated from a programming language to a language that a
machine understands.

25.Compile time ends with generation of which file?
.class

At compile time, the java compiler(javac) takes the source code(.java file) and
checks if there is any syntax, type-checking or any semantic errors inside the
program. If there is no error, the compiler generates a .class(bytecode) file for
that .java file. If there is any compilation error, java compiler displays that
error in command window(eg cmd).

26.Can you run the program without compilation? Try running your first program without compilation and share result.
Error: Could not find or load main class MyApp


27.When does runtime start?
Runtime is the phase of the program lifecycle that executes and keeps a program
running; other phases include edit time, compile time, link time, distribution
time, installation time, and load time.

28.During which phase .class file is loaded into memory runtime or compile time? Who loads .class file into memory?
Java ClassLoader is used to load the classes at run time. In other words, JVM
performs the linking process at runtime. Classes are loaded into the JVM according
to need.